everyone welcome back to another
hardware news recap for the week we are
in Taipei right now working on a factory
tour series and we actually have a point
for you to comment on regarding that but
for the news recap we'll be talking
about YouTube reviewing its human
malware D monetization policies but it
hasn't reviewed them yet so I still
can't say the word and I am DS financial
analyst day for 2020 was packed with a
lot of information we'll need to go over
Intel's got some news coming up for a
new test site in Costa Rica that's been
certified and it also has some
commentary on process leadership and its
inability to regain leadership for a
couple of years and then we'll be
covering the El Capitan supercomputer
and some ampère 80 core server chips
before that this video is brought to you
by coursers hydro x water cooling series
of course our strength is bringing water
cooling to the masses and it has built
out cooling solutions with industry
leaders to help newcomers get into
open-loop cooling Corsair has fittings
adapters GP water blocks CPU water
blocks pump res combos and radiators all
available in the Hydra X line as you can
see in our footage these kits can be
used to build a beautiful open loop
systems learn more at the link in the
description below alright so for the
first one we're gonna be visiting with a
lot of people I noted this in the ass PM
that's coming up as well but basically
we'd like you to leave comments in the
comment section below for any questions
you might have that we could pose to
kingpin or hi cookie who are both
professional overclockers kingpin works
for EVGA hi cookie works for gigabyte
and we're going to be spending time in
each of their labs working with them on
just some coverage in general but
potentially some overclocking too so
it's a good option or opportunity for
you to post any more advanced
overclocking questions that you might
have that we wouldn't be able to answer
quite as well as the professionals in
the space so anything from what's it
like to work as an overclocker
professionally to technical specific
questions about safe voltages and stuff
like that so leave your questions below
we're gonna look here and in the ask GN
for anything that might be interesting
for basically a and ask the overclockers
segment we'll be doing this trip next
news item YouTube is reviewing its human
malware D monetization
we we still can't say the words like CV
or anything related to it because right
now it's d monetizing videos for
reference of the thing and that's
because a couple things so first of all
it's in the title you get flagged
immediately and if you say it verbally
YouTube has a really cool transcripts
automation procedure except that doesn't
mean that it'll scan and find words so
it can find things like swear words and
you get partial D monetization or it can
find things like sensitive topics which
is currently what the human malware is
identified as YouTube tweeted and
ironically I can't read the full tweet
because we would get D monetized but and
we did talk about bleeping it but then
we would get flagged for swearing
because YouTube sees bleeps as a swear
and then you get partial D monetization
but anyway the tweet said quotes who
protect people from misinformation we're
removing videos that violate the
policies discourage people from seeking
medical treatment or encourage the use
of harmful cures to treat the thing and
it also they had another tweet that says
quote given the rapidly updating news
and education on human malware we are
reviewing our monetization policies
around videos that discuss the virus
more to come and then they said lastly
we are donating advertising space to at
whu-oh and local government authorities
and impacted regions to help educate and
inform their communities end of quote
for that so that's the update on
YouTube's policies they haven't rolled
it out yet but presumably when they do
we can stop doing stupid workarounds
next one and the Financial Analysts day
2024 Zen three and four and Navi 2x news
that came out and II just finished
holding its Andy Financial Analysts day
where it outlined several developments
on the horizon there's a lot of
information here so we're gonna unpack
as much of it as we can as efficiently
as we can and it may be it may be worth
revisiting some of these topics
individually in more depth as more
information comes out but for now we'll
just recap it quickly for you a lot of
the information we've seen before some
of it though is new and then there's
also been some updates and modifications
to information that AMD has put out
previously on its public roadmaps first
item and the note
that it has shipped more than 260
million x86 Zen core since the launch of
Zen in 2017 and according to AMD that
rate is apparently doubling they also
said Zen 3 will begin rollout in late
2020 with the full product stack for
that being available by end of 2021 and
while we and everyone else previously
sought thought that Zen 3 would be a 7
nanometre plus node by TSMC and these
seems to be walking that back that
expectation dropping the + designation
from its most recent roadmaps and he
clarified that oils n 3 will use
enhancements beyond vanilla 7 nanometre
it didn't say Zen 3 won't use EUV but
that it will instead very case-by-case
so we'll learn more about which cases
those are as things approach as a
reminder TSMC currently has to process
nodes beyond its first generation n 7
there's the n7p which is duv based and
7p is mostly an optimized continuation
of n 7 that recycles the same design
rules and tools as n 7 so it's IP
compatible then there's also n 7 plus
which is TSM C's the first process that
adapts EUV for certain layers and we're
sure to learn more about this in the
future as well next Andy is currently
developing its n4 architecture and it's
targeting a 2022 release for that the
Zen 4 cores will apparently be built on
5 nanometer so that'll be a change as
well epic Millan is the successor to
epic roam the currently deployed newest
epic CPUs and it's on track for a late
2020 launch as well and of course the
desktop parts typically roughly coincide
with those server launches Malan will
use that these n3 architecture and use
an improved iteration of 7 nanometre
whether that's TSM Steve's n7p
or n7 + remains to be seen at this point
further out is Genoa which we've briefly
mentioned in Andy's El Capitan
supercomputer news kind of later epic
Genoa will be based on Zen 4 and that
one has a much later release date
expected 5 nanometer for a 2022 launch
on that one
MD also had news on Infiniti fabric
interconnects now being known as in
the architecture rather than infinity
fabrics they're leaning further into it
and that begins with the third
generation of the technology and the
previously announced that El Capitan
will use the third gen infinity
architecture and how it's an increased
CPU to GPU memory coherency other than a
rough 2020 to launch date though nothing
more is really known at this time about
the updates to infinity fabric and the
rebrand it hasn't been in the
architecture and these also splitting
its GPU architectures into a few pieces
so our DNA is going to remain as a
consumer line that was the semi
replacement for GCN and he made a big
point when our DNA came out that GCN
would still be alive although when they
said that kind of felt like they were
just trying to reassure people who had
maybe recently purchased professional
class cards that it wasn't a dead
purchase but our DNA is remaining for
client and then they have another one
called cDNA for compute and data center
customers as for how cDNA will
differentiate from our DNA and it's
gaming focused deployment we're not sure
yet and he hasn't specified but at least
the designations are known at this point
and be sure to roadmap outline of the
two generations of cDNA cdnas cDNA one
is supposed to be seven nanometer and
cDNA two is supposed to be on an
unspecified node or again 2022 maybe
five we know that cDNA 2 will rely
heavily on third gen infinity
architecture which was just announced
and no doubt el capitan is set to use CD
and 82 as well a couple more items two
more from anthias a big analyst day for
them they have e2x seems to be what AMD
is targeting for its big navvy chip
that's been discussed for a while we
know that big navvy is a thin Lisa sue
talks about it quite a while ago at this
point but there's also been a lot of BS
rumors out there some of which we've
covered a SK Hynix recently debunked one
of them officially anyway now b2x will
be based on our DNA - according to AMD
our DNA - will bring up to a 50%
performance per watt improvement to be
extremely clear here that doesn't
necessarily translate to a 50%
improvement in rasterization performance
for example 50% performance per watt
means that you could you
have an efficiency increase but not and
probably a performance increase but not
necessarily a straight 50% improvement
and what we perceive as performance
which would typically be illustrated as
maybe FPS or render time or something
like that instead you're looking at what
performance do you get at a given power
consumption so this improvement will
extend further with our DNA 3 set for
2022 our DNA - based GPUs are expected
for later this year and then the final
item from AMD is that they also unveiled
what appears to be a response to Intel's
Favreau's technology in the form of what
Andy calls x3d die stacking Intel's
fatherís was also making a big deal out
of daya stacking multiple dies seems to
be the way of the future rather than
monolithic solutions andy is framing x3d
die stacking and packaging as a natural
evolution from its past MCM and chip
with designs seen Andy stack multiple
dies atop a single interposer exactly
what dies in elements Andy plans to
incorporate here aren't known yet
however Andy is promising a 10x increase
in the bandwidth density apparently and
we'll learn more about that later in tom
certifies a Costa Rica site for testing
and finishing operations for CPUs and a
recent product change notification or
PCN Intel puts these out regularly for
existing products the company revealed
that it's preparing to bring a fourth
site online for test and finish which is
part of its processor manufacturing
operations and that's going to be online
in Costa Rica the additional site should
help ease Intel's manufacturing woes and
ability to meet demand
however lo it may at times be and for
the meantime it's targeting cascade Lake
SP and cascade Lake our xeon chips
specifically the PCN states that costa
rica's operations will roll out in
phases starting april 19th of 2020 the
remaining operations should come online
by August 3rd of 2020 so you might see
some easing of some of the supply
constraints by then at least for Xeon
part another Intel news item on this one
Intel noted itself that it won't regain
process leadership until post 2021
recently at the Morgan Stanley analysts
conference Intel CFO George Davis
offered some exceedingly rare in
on behalf of Enzo most notably Davis
laid bare that despite the fact that
Intel is currently shipping 10 nanometre
in the form of ice lake y-you and agile
X FPGAs the 10 nanometer node simply
won't be as productive or as profitable
as 14 nanometer and it certainly won't
match the iconic 22 nanometer that spit
out as well and Ivybridge the quote was
it look this just isn't going to be the
best note that Intel has ever made it's
going to be less productive than 14 less
productive than 22 the fact is like I
said it isn't going to be as strong a
note as people would expect from 14 or
what they'll see in seven that was by
George Davis from Intel Davis also
affirmed that Intel is firmly behind its
manufacturing competitors and process
technology and process leadership tsmc
biggest competitor right now in this
processor space at least is currently at
7 nanometers and moving forward with 700
plus EUV which has been discussed for it
it feels like decades at this point but
it's finally happening and we have if
you're interested in EUV and what that
is a video with david cantor from a
couple years ago a technical analyst
who's very good in this industry
explaining more of what that is so it's
expected that Intel's 10 nanometer will
match TSMC 7 nanometer non-eu v in terms
of transistor density and when Intel
launches its own seven animated UV based
node by end of 2021
Davis predicts that only then will Intel
reach parity with the competition who
will of course also be advancing at the
same time however Intel isn't expected
to recapture a process lead until some
unspecified point beyond 2021 the quote
continues so we bring a lot of
capability to the table for our
customers in addition to the CPU and we
feel like we're starting to see the
acceleration on the process that we've
been talking about to get back to you
know parity and the 7 nanometer
generation and regain leadership in the
5 nanometer generation so Intel at this
point hasn't explicitly stated when it
expects 5 nanometer will arrive however
Intel has expressed a desire to get back
to a two-year manufacturing cadence
which could land the new node in late
2023 although 2024 may be more likely
and again
has a full transcription from the
conference if you're interested in
reading the whole thing and the rest of
the quotes a couple more news items here
el capitan supercomputer to use and
these epic Genoa and Radeon instinct and
the end cray now owned by HPE will
partner together with Lawrence Livermore
National Laboratory to build the El
Capitan supercomputer which is expected
to be the world's fastest supercomputer
upon completion in 2023 the
supercomputer will exceed 2 exa flops of
double-precision floating-point
operational power or FP 6400 Capitan
marks the second access scale level
supercomputer that features both anti
CPUs and GPUs the first one if you
recall we covered when it was news also
and that was frontier and Alchemy's Hana
will feature and these are
fourth-generation epic chips codenamed
Genoa and based on Zen four cores
additionally AMD will provide
next-generation as they call it Radeon
instinct GPUs and the supercomputer will
be based on crazy hasta platform which
is a tried-and-true platform at the
exascale level that's been out for a
little bit El Capitan will also use
craze slingshot interconnect each blade
in the supercomputer will around a four
to one configuration with four GPUs
connected to one CPU and Andy is a third
generation infinity architecture
infinity fabric is now called infinity
architecture is also going to be in the
plan El Capitan will replace Sierra and
will primarily be used for nuclear
weapons modeling we're looking forward
to the future NC CAF 1703 - B
Constitution class supercomputer and
fear computing officially unveils 80
core ultra server chips last December we
mentioned that ampere computing was
starting to ramp up and prep an 80 core
server chip and was looking to compete
most directly with Amazon based on arms
n1 architecture for this one at the time
the chip was codenamed Quicksilver and
would primarily compete against Amazon's
own home-brewed arm server chip the
graviton - which we always liked an
attacks branding of this one as the anti
graviton or anti-graft it now ampere has
officially unwrapped ultra we don't have
an official list of SKUs or prices at
this time but we have some basics on it
we know that ultra will scale up to 80
cores and we know that all cores will be
single threaded per the n1 architecture
and will be isolated from course sharing
security vulnerabilities ultra is built
on TSM CS and seven process and is rated
for a three gigahertz all core frequency
ultra will also boast eight channels for
ddr4 3200 memory 128 PCIe gen 4 lanes
and has a TDP that's varying between 45
and 210 watts for its various SKUs Ultra
will roll out to reference designs
there's one called Mount Snow and one
called mountain Jade Mount snow is a
single socket configuration mount Jade
is a dual socket configuration either
design can be had in one you or two you
form factors and additionally each
design will offer support for sixteen
memory modules per socket and come
replete with PCIe John 4 and CCI X
attachments ultra is currently being
sampled with amperes early customers and
is slated for volume production mid 2020
and then looks like we've got two more
here recent Windows updates so there's a
recent Windows Update specifically
Windows 10 marks KB four five three five
nine nine six that's seen reports of
multiple issues despite Microsoft having
not yet officially acknowledged any of
those issues at time of filming as is
often the case the KB update was set to
fix bugs including one where the the
search box was not rendering properly in
Windows the last Windows updates often
cut both ways
and this one's caused some new issues as
reported by Windows latest and several
users online the sign tool has been
crashing after installing the update
additionally redditors are reporting FPS
drops and games as well as audio issues
and that's all post KB for five three
five nine nine six some users are also
reporting that boot times have tanked
for them or that their pcs have been
hanging in an infinite boot loop really
good QC on this one for now the best
course is to avoid the patch it is an
optional patch which means that you
haven't had it automatically applied yet
if you went and manually applied it then
you can remove it by going to settings
update history and then you can
uninstall that specific KB number
finally see Sonic brains
Computex 2018 concepts to market finally
has always come out at a bit of a
latency see sonic appears to be bringing
is 2018 concepts now known as SSR - 750
F a to market and that's a Kinect ssr74
the f8 Connect solution the name is
different originally it was called the
system cable management device or SCM d
the idea remains the same though the C
Sonic connect essentially trades the
modular connections on the power supply
itself instead for a single unit that
attaches via magnet to the backside of
your cases motherboard tray or more
suitably perhaps into the now somewhat
popularized kill management channels
that come in cases like NZXT although we
don't know if it'll explicitly fit in
that one all the components of power
supply connections are made through this
hub instead with it shorter modular
cables rather than coming out of the
power supply the difference here from
kalo extensions is not much the hub is
powered and tethered to the power supply
via two bundled cables and then the
power supply itself is C Sonic 750 watt
prime model 80 plus gold certified the
company hasn't mentioned what the
connect will cost but it did mention
that time to market is varying depending
on location now couple of obvious things
here compatibility with cases on
something like this going to be all over
the place and probably not great for a
lot of them you are adding a very large
attachment to the back so you're gonna
have clearance issues with the panel and
then also issues with routing the cables
it would be interesting for cable
management channels if it fits in them
and another concern - that we'd have to
look into would be the power
capabilities of the single cable that's
connecting the module to the power
supply you need some pretty thick wire
gauge there to prevent any issues when
it's under full load but something
interesting at least different in the
industry kind of skeptical of how
widespread it'll be though its
compatibility is going to be the biggest
problem and that it has the most chance
to kill a product when it comes out so
that's it for this one
remember to leave your questions below
for any of the overclockers or maybe
factories that were visiting this week
we'll try to skim through them and see
which ones we can address for with with
the professionals we meet with and
otherwise subscribe for more go-to
stored on cameras excess net or
patreon.com/scishow your access topside
directly and we'll see you all next time
[Music]